# Python Pokemon Text Game
#### *Video Demo*: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XwcZ8MB3IO8
##### *What my project is*:
    It is a text-based video game in which the user battles through 4 different trainers, each of which have 2-3 Pokemon. It is similar to the 'Elite 4' that players battle near the end of the classic Pokemon video game. The user passes through each of 4 rooms, each with a different trainer with a different theme. The first room has a water theme, so the trainer has only water Pokemon. The second room has a fire theme, so fire Pokemon. The user has 4 Pokemon to initially choose from to battle with, and they are allowed to choose a new Pokemon on their turn. The goal is to choose moves in order to cause all of the opponents' Pokemon to faint. If all of the user's Pokemon faint, it is game over. The game uses Python code and pulls from a database in SQLite.
##### *What each file contains and does*:
    The main.py file is where the game starts. The SQLite database 'pokemon.db' is pulled from, which will be addressed later. 2 lists are initialized, where the user's and opponent's Pokemon are stored, respectively. The 'fight' function is then called from the helpers.py file for each battle. Lastly, the main file prints a statement if the user loses, or a different statement if the player gets through all 4 of the opponents.

    helpers.py contains the actual battle sequence in the 'fight' function. 'fight' first calls the 'userNewPokemon'  and 'opponentNewPokemon' functions, which allow the user to choose a Pokemon and set the opponent's first Pokemon. These functions also put the correct information in the 'yourCurrentPokemonMoves' and 'opponentCurrentPokemonMoves' lists. After calling these functions, 'fight' displays a list of available moves to the user along with each move's power points (or PP). The function waits for input from the user. If the user types in a move that is not in the list or that does not have enough PP, it will prompt the user again. Once the user gives a correct choice, the move and damage are printed, the move's PP decreases by 1, and the opponent's updated health points (or HP) is displayed. The opponent then chooses a move at random based on the randint() function. If either the user or opponent's Pokemon faints, the userNewPokemon or opponentNewPokemon function is called once again. If the opponent runs out of Pokemon or if the user chooses a new Pokemon, the current PP of each move is saved to the yourPokemon list. If the opponent runs out of Pokemon, the fight function returns True, which allows the user to continue the game. If the user runs out of Pokemon, the fight function returns False, essentially ending the game.

    The pokemon.db file contains four tables: places, pokemon, trainers, and moves. Places contains a description of each room and the trainer who fights in that room. Pokemon contains info on each Pokemon's level and moves. Trainers contains each of the trainer's ids along with the phrases they say at different points of the game. Finally, moves contains move names, PP and how much base damage each delivers (which is multipled with a Pokemon's level to determine true damage).

    asciiArt.py contains the Ascii art pulled from fiikus.net/?pokedex. If a new Pokemon is called, this art is displayed (except for the last trainer because neither Pokemon had Ascii art on the website or another that I could find).
